<br>


REBOL Glossary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

&nbsp; &nbsp; link:#Notes[Notes]

REBOL: elative xpression ased bject anguage::

<span id="A"></span> <span id="B"></span>

Binding: Is a property of a REBOL word that makes it a member of a REBOL
context. REBOL words having binding can be used as variables, i.e. they
can refer to REBOL values.::

<span id="C"></span>

Context: REBOL contexts are sets of REBOL words assigning meaning to
their member words. +
Context: There is a REBOL function link:words_context[context] which is
a short form for <tt>make object!</tt>.::

<span id="D"></span>

Datatype: REBOL is a rich datatype language. Not only are more common
computer programming types used by REBOL, such as integers and strings,
but there are many other high and low level datatypes built into the
core of REBOL. Each REBOL datatype is a REBOL value that has an
associated symbol and functions that test if a value is of the given
datatype.::

datatype!: This is a REBOL datatype. All REBOL datatypes are of the
*datatype!* datatype; including the *datatype!* datatype itself.::

Dialect: REBOL dialects are sub-languages of REBOL. They are implemented
as functions processing (one or more) REBOL blocks. From this it
follows, that all REBOL dialects use the same lexical form for all data
types but allow different interpretation of the values within a block.
Languages defined on the string level (implemented as functions
processing strings) are not REBOL dialects according to this definition.
Dialects are able to provide greater expressive power for specific
domains of use. <small>A dictionary definition of
Dictionary: dialect[dialect].</small> Dialects may be named after the
functions interpreting them. Therefore we speak about the Parse Dialect,
which is the dialect the *parse* function "understands". An exception is
the *make* function, which implements many dialects, like e.g. the
Object Specification Dialect or the Function Specification Dialect.
Another example of a REBOL dialect is the VID (Visual Interface
Dialect), that is interpreted by the *layout* function. The main REBOL
dialect is the dialect interpreted by the *do* function (the Do
Dialect).::

<span id="E"></span> <span id="F"></span>

Face: A REBOL object serving as a VID element. A higher level than the
link:words_gob![gob!] datatype.::

Function: One of the main building blocks for REBOL evaluation.
Functions perform computations on zero or more arguments and result in a
value. There are various types of REBOL functions. Some functions in
REBOL are native, being built into REBOL using the C programming
language, many are REBOL mezzanines, and the rest are user defined.::

function!: A REBOL datatype. E.g. all REBOL functions defined using the
*func* function have this datatype.::

<span id="G"></span>

GOB: Graphical OBject. The basic building block in REBOL's graphics
system. +
gob!: A REBOL datatype that defines a low-level graphical object.::

<span id="H"></span> <span id="I"></span> <span id="J"></span> <span
id="K"></span> <span id="L"></span> <span id="M"></span>

Mezzanine: A function that comes built into REBOL implemented using
REBOL source code.::

<span id="N"></span> <span id="O"></span> <span id="P"></span> <span
id="Q"></span> <span id="R"></span> <span id="S"></span> <span
id="T"></span> <span id="U"></span> <span id="V"></span>

VID: Visual Interface Dialect +
view: The REBOL function to display graphical windows, and then handle
user interface events.::

<span id="W"></span>

Word: REBOL words are REBOL values that can play the roles of variables
and keywords as used in other programming languages. To be able to play
all the necessary roles there are five different word types in REBOL. We
describe the properties of the , as interpreted by the *do* function,
since it is the most important dialect. Other dialects can (and usually
do) behave differently.::

:;word: This is a syntactic form of the *word!* datatype. In the Do
Dialect if the word refers to a function, *do* evaluates the function.
So, this datatype can (in the Do Dialect) play the role keywords in
other programming languages do. If the word is unset, i.e. if it refers
to the <tt>#[unset!]</tt> value, *do* causes an error. This property is
used as a typo protection. In addition to functions and the
<tt>#[unset!]</tt> value there is a couple of other "word-active"
datatypes causing specific behaviour. For the majority of values, that
are "word-inactive" a much simpler behaviour is implemented in the Do
Dialect: *do* yields the value the word is referring to, causing this
syntactic form to behave like variables in other programming languages,
representing the value the variable refers to.

:;<nowiki>word:</nowiki>: This is a syntactic form of the *set-word!*
datatype. In the Do Dialect this syntactic form is used to implement the
behaviour of variables on the left-hand side of the set statements known
from other programming languages. As a protection measure, *do* causes
an error when the expression to the right of the set-word evaluates to
<tt>#[unset!]</tt>. For any other result the set-word evaluation
succeeds setting the word to refer to the value of the right-hand
expression and yielding the value.

:;<nowiki>:word</nowiki>: This is a syntactic form of the *get-word!*
datatype. In the Do Dialect the value the word is referring to is
yielded, so this syntactic form plays a role of a variable referring to
a value without the exceptions discussed in the *word!* datatype case.

:;'word: This is a syntactic form of the *lit-word!* datatype. In the Do
Dialect *do* yields the corresponding word, i.e. the corresponding value
having the *word!* datatype.

:;/word: This is a syntactic form of the *refinement!* datatype. The Do
Dialect does not use it for any special purpose, *do* simply yields the
encountered refinement.

<span id="X"></span> <span id="Y"></span> <span id="Z"></span> <span
id="0"></span> <span id="1"></span> <span id="2"></span> <span
id="3"></span> <span id="4"></span> <span id="5"></span> <span
id="6"></span> <span id="7"></span> <span id="8"></span> <span
id="9"></span>
