[cols="",]
|=========================
|__TOC__
|=========================

The APPLY function is new in R3.


Concept
~~~~~~~

Normally, you evaluate a function by providing the function followed by
its arguments. For example:

` insert string "go"`

Functions also allow options, provided as a refinement path to the
function. For example, to refine the above example:

` insert/part string "go" 2`

This works just fine in most cases. But, what if you don't know in
advance the refinements and arguments that are needed? How do you
dynamically call a function with any arbitrary set of arguments and
refinements?

*That is the main purpose of APPLY. It applies a function to a set of
arguments.*

Note that it is also possible to dynamically construct a block of code
for handling the above situation; however, APPLY is a more efficient
tool for this specific situation of refinements and arguments.


Usage
~~~~~

APPLY takes a function value and applies a block of arguments to that
function. The above example can be applied as:

`   apply :insert [string "go"]`

Note these points:

* The function is specified by its _function value_, not its variable
name.
* The arguments are passed as a block.
* The argument block is reduced (by default, there is also a way not to
do that).
* APPLY returns the result of the function.


Argument Order
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The order of the arguments in the block must match the function's formal
argument order, including refinements. If you type:

`  help insert`

You will see the order of the arguments is:

`  INSERT series value /part length /only /dup count`

Note that unused arguments do not need to be provided and they will be
set to NONE by default. For more on this, see
link:Forgoing_faux_pas#apply_and_refinements[apply and refinements].


Refinement Usage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To apply a refinement, such as the /part option above:

`   apply :insert [string "go" true 123]`

The true value indicates that the refinement is in use and the 123 will
be pasted for the length argument.

If instead, the line was:

`   apply :insert [string "go" false 123]`

Even though the 123 was provided, it would not be passed because the
refinement is not true.


Reduced block
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is so common to pass final values to a function that a REDUCE is part
of the APPLY function. Because REDUCE is integrated with APPLY, this is
a lot more efficient than calling REDUCE separately.

What this means is that you can write:

`  apply :insert [string uppercase "go" get-ref n + 123]`

In those cases where you do not want to reduce, just use the /only
refinement:

`  apply/only :insert ["there" "go" #[true] 123]`

Now the values of the arg block are used directly as-is. Not even
variables are evaluated. This is useful if you need to safely control
what is being applied.


Useful example: Reinsert
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

APPLY comes in handy when pre-processing arguments and refinements
before passing them to other functions.

For example, if we want to create a function that is exactly like INSERT
but REDUCEs its value argument first and passes all refinements as
needed, it could look something like this:

 reinsert: func [ "Insert a reduced block into series" series value
/part length /only /dup count ][ apply :insert [series reduce value part
length only dup count] ] 