Here you will find listed REBOL project covering variuous areas of the
programming world.

[cols=",",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Project |Description
|Cheyenne]] |A web server written in REBOL

|http://www.rebol.net/docs/makedoc.html[MakedocDocument Generator]
|MakeDoc is the standard used for all REBOL documentation, including
REBOL websites, manuals, notes, blogs, and more.

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/mdp/[Makedoc Pro] |Makedoc Pro is
an advanced version of makedoc but on steroids

|http://home.tiscali.dk/john.niclasen/nicomdoc/[NicomDoc2] |MakeDoc
Variation: Nicomdoc allows for TeX quality math expressions in your
documentation (among it's many other features).

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/make-site/[Make Site] |The
make-site project can generate complete web-sites from simple text input
files

|http://www.pointillistic.com/open-REBOL/moa/steel/index.html[Steel
Project] |Steel is a collection of tools/libraries for REBOL written by
Maxim Olivier-Adlhoch

|http://www.dobeash.com/RebGUI/[RebGUI] |An ADVANCED gui system for
REBOL. Look at it !

|http://www.robertmuench.de/[RebGUI Fork byRobert Muench] |This is a
RebGUI with a set of modifications. It is only avalable from author.

|http://www.hmkdesign.dk/rebol/page0/page0.html[View andREBOL
Addins] |Henrik Mikael Kristensen addins to REBOL. LISTVIEW: a
complete listview system for REBOL/view TOOLBAR: a Firefox Stile
Toolbar for REBOLRELATIONS ENGINE: an engine to maintain relations
between entities and some other

|http://www.dobeash.com/it/rebdb/[RebDB] |Pseudo relational database
written in REBOL

|http://www.fys.ku.dk/~niclasen/nicomdb/index.html[Nicom DB] |New
database engine written in REBOL and released under GPL.

|http://www.dobeash.com/sqlite.html[SQLLite Driver] |A powerful protocol
to access the SQL Lite DLL on windows. A must for professional DB
developers !

|http://rebol.softinnov.org/mysql[MySQL Driver] |MySQL Driver compatible
up to MySQL 5 for REBOL written by DocKimbel

|http://softinnov.org/rebol/pgsql.shtml[PGSQL Driver] |It's a scheme for
/Core that will allow you to connect to a PostgreSQL database server

|http://www.tretbase.com/[TRETBASE] |New database written in REBOL and
supporting REBOL data

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/rfm/[Rebol Framework] |The Rebol
Framework

|http://www.ross-gill.com/QM/[QuaterMaster framework] |QuarterMaster is
a Web Framework based on the ‘Model-View-Controller’ application pattern

|http://softinnov.org/rebol/ldap.shtml[LDAP Scheme] |LDAP support for
REBOL/Core by implementing the LDAP protocol using REBOL schemes

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/data-sync/[Data-Sync Dialect] |The
data-sync dialect implements a dialect which lets you write xpeers
applications that need to handle & sync databases and record.Ask it
directly to the author.

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/commercial/[GIST Register] |This
application is an xpeers.net platform application that handles special
deases information for a web of medical doctors.

|http://www.robertmuench.de/projects/data-form/[Data Form Dialect] |The
data-form dialect was designed to let you create data-form screen
layouts in a fast and easy way

|http://www.pointillistic.com/open-REBOL/moa/steel/retools/remark/index.html[REMARK!
HTLM Dialect] |Remark allows you to create and manage a complete web
site by creating static web pages which are built up from html tags
which you define (plus any normal html, of course).

|http://www.fys.ku.dk/~niclasen/rebol/libs/gfx/[TARGA and IFF image
loaders] |Loaders for the TARGA and IFF image formats]

|http://www.fys.ku.dk/~niclasen/rebol/OpenGL/[OpenGL Client] |OpenGL
client solution for Windows and MacOS

|http://home.tiscali.dk/john.niclasen/postscript/postscript.r[Postscript
Dialect]
|http://home.tiscali.dk/john.niclasen/postscript/postscript.html[Postscript
Dialect Documenation], a dialect to produce postscript pages from REBOL

|http://home.tiscali.dk/john.niclasen/rebxml/[RebXML] |RebXML is a REBOL
representation of an XML document. The idea behind XML is very good with
an interchange format, that is strictly build on the hierarchical
datamodel.

|http://softinnov.org/rebol/captcha.shtml[CAPTCHA Generator] |Visual
captcha generation system for REBOL web application

|http://softinnov.org/rebol/acall.shtml[ASYNC Call protocol] |This is an
asynchronous CALL function implementation. That means that it does the
same job as the native CALL command, but allows you to retrieve output
data without blocking your REBOL session.

|http://softinnov.org/rebol/ntlm.shtml[NT Lan Manager